.TH REMOTEMEDIA 1 "2024" "RemoteMedia CLI" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
remotemedia \- command-line tool for AI/ML pipeline execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B remotemedia
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B remotemedia
is a command-line tool for running AI/ML pipelines locally or on remote servers.
It supports audio transcription, text-to-speech, voice assistants, and custom pipelines.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity level. Can be specified multiple times (-v, -vv, -vvv).
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-error output.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to configuration file. Default: ~/.remotemedia/config.toml
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: text, json, or table. Default: text
.SH COMMANDS
.SS run
Execute a pipeline with file input/output.
.PP
.B remotemedia run
\fIMANIFEST\fR \fB\-\-input\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fB\-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR]
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIFILE\fR
Input file path (required)
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Output file path. If not specified, output goes to stdout.
.TP
.BR \-\-timeout " " \fISECONDS\fR
Execution timeout in seconds
.SS stream
Run a pipeline in streaming mode with optional microphone/speaker.
.PP
.B remotemedia stream
\fIMANIFEST\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-mic
Use microphone as input source
.TP
.BR \-\-speaker
Use speaker as output destination
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIFILE\fR
Input file for streaming
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Output file for streaming
.SS validate
Check a pipeline manifest for errors.
.PP
.B remotemedia validate
\fIMANIFEST\fR
.PP
Performs syntax validation, node type checking, connection validation,
cycle detection, and duplicate ID detection.
.SS serve
Start a local server for pipeline execution.
.PP
.B remotemedia serve
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Server port. Default: 8080
.TP
.BR \-\-host " " \fIADDRESS\fR
Bind address. Default: 0.0.0.0
.TP
.BR \-\-manifest " " \fIFILE\fR
Default pipeline manifest
.SS nodes
Node management commands.
.PP
.B remotemedia nodes list
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
.PP
List all available node types.
.PP
.B remotemedia nodes info
\fINODE_TYPE\fR
.PP
Show detailed information about a specific node type.
.SS remote
Remote server execution commands.
.PP
.B remotemedia remote run
\fB\-\-server\fR \fIURL\fR \fIMANIFEST\fR \fB\-\-input\fR \fIFILE\fR
.PP
Execute a pipeline on a remote server.
.PP
.B remotemedia remote stream
\fB\-\-server\fR \fIURL\fR \fIMANIFEST\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.PP
Stream pipeline execution on a remote server.
.SS servers
Server configuration management.
.PP
.B remotemedia servers list
.PP
List saved server configurations.
.PP
.B remotemedia servers add
\fINAME\fR \fIURL\fR [\fB\-\-default\fR]
.PP
Add a server configuration.
.PP
.B remotemedia servers remove
\fINAME\fR
.PP
Remove a server configuration.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.remotemedia/config.toml
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.remotemedia/servers.toml
Saved server configurations
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B REMOTEMEDIA_CONFIG
Path to configuration file
.TP
.B REMOTEMEDIA_DEFAULT_SERVER
Default server URL
.TP
.B REMOTEMEDIA_LOG
Log level (error, warn, info, debug, trace)
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Transcribe an audio file:
.PP
.RS
remotemedia run transcribe.yaml --input audio.wav
.RE
.PP
Run voice assistant with microphone and speaker:
.PP
.RS
remotemedia stream voice-assistant.yaml --mic --speaker
.RE
.PP
Execute pipeline on remote server:
.PP
.RS
remotemedia remote run --server grpc://host:50051 pipeline.yaml --input data.wav
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR remotemedia-runtime (7)
.SH AUTHORS
RemoteMedia SDK Contributors
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/remotemedia/sdk/issues
